Consider the situation of the previous exercises. That is, P preparation rooms, one operating theatre and R recovery rooms with no intermediate buffer capacity between them. Assume still only one patient stream with exponentially distributed arrival and service times (means: interarrival time 25, preparation time 40, operation time 20, recovery time 40). (It is easy to infer that ideally we should have 80% utilization of operation room and on average less than two patients in preparation and recovery). For simplicity, we assume continuous operation. We shall monitor the building up of a queue before preparation, idle capacity of the preparation and the rate of blocking of operations.

Run 20 independent samples of 1000 time units. Do this for three different configurations (3 preparation rooms, 4 recoveries: 3p 5r, 4p 5r). (It may be wise to foresee the needs of all the problems at once to not have to rerun samples).

Observe the length of a queue before preparation room and the probability of operation being in waiting state (blocked). You can do this by sampling the variables with regular rate or by monitoring the variables exactly.

Compute the point estimates (means), and interval estimates (confidence intervals for means) for 95% confidence level.
Do any of the observed values differ significantly between 3p5r and 4p5r or between 3p5r and 3p4r when treated as independent experiments and samples.
Arrange the simulation so that you can consider observations pairwise (using same random number seeds for each configuration and considering the differences in observed values as independent observations). Compute the interval estimates directly for the differences. Are the differences between configurations now significant?
The blocking of operation room is the most interesting quantity but its reliable estimation is difficult. As blocking can occur only when operation ends while all recovery units are busy, consider observing the probability of all recovery units being busy. Does this have smaller or larger (relative) confidence interval when you compare between different configurations?
As for to your personal twist to the problem. Figure out a scenario where the twisted version would have same expected overall utilization rate for the operation room and try to compare the original and twisted versions and see if they lead to significantly different performance in the observed outputs. Most likely you will have to adjust the interarrival rate (and hence the total amount of clients) if your twist will affect the expected operation times (like when having severe cases in the mix).